as a political stance people who believe
in Animal Liberation who are against
speciesism will incorporate veganism
into their lives as much as is possible
and practicable this will look different
for everyone based on a variety of
factors socioeconomic factors what Mexi
says here is that your commitment to
abolish factory farming your commitment
to refuse to eat meat dairy and eggs
your refusal to wear leather your moral
commitment should be allowed to vary
should be allowed to vacillate with your
socio economic circumstances if you
watch the much longer video this is
exerted from I think you can see that
she's using what's called intersectional
reasoning to talk about intersecting
oppressions and basically say well you
should be vegan in your own way
at a level that's appropriate for you
given how oppressed you are how
oppressed you may be given your
particular benighted socioeconomic
background cultural background etc when
my grandmother went to college
anti-semitism was very very real and all
over the world Jews really were an
oppressed minority they may have been
less oppressed in Canada than they were
in Europe but still there was a very
real oppression do you think that my
grandmother wanted to write math tests
and chemistry tests that were easier for
her because she was oppressed do you
think she wanted to be easier for her to
get into dental college or virtus exceed
in dental college because her family was
poor because she was from at that time
really and intensely hated and oppressed
ethnic minority in Europe and in Canada
given the whole generation that she
lived through the struggle she went
through
do you think it would have helped her do
you think it would have helped Canadian
society as a whole to have two different
standards for what it is to succeed on a
math test separate but unequal one for
an oppressed minority group and one for
everyone else I had the conversation
with a guy today about education for our
indigenous people in Canada creative way
Mohawk den a some people call them
American Indians Native Americans the
reality is in Canada still now we have
separate but unequal education our First
Nations people are Native people almost
that exception have a much lower quality
of education a much worse quality of
education than Canadians they've worse
quality of education than new immigrants
and refugees and even people were just
living as temporary visitors in Canada
who live in the cities and a part of the
mainstream white Western settler
education do you think it would help our
genuinely oppressed native people to
hold them to a lower standard and to say
oh well this math test is good enough
for you this chemistry test is good
enough for you this line here is good
enough for you to live up to I think
you'd find that extremely disturbing
extremely dehumanizing but we're just
talking about math we're just talking
about chemistry how much worse would it
be if you were to say morality ethics
that these standards should be lowered
for you because of your socioeconomic
background because if you were cultural
oppression to say to my own grandmother
even oh well who could expect anything
better from you
you're just a blank from blank who would
expect you to live up to a higher
standard who would expect you to be
judged or measured by the same ruler my
grandmother all that she wanted all her
life was to be judged by the same
measure as everyone else she wasn't a
profound woman being politically had
nothing in common with her and no
sympathy for her and what she did with
her life it mattered a lot to her that
for her as a Jew she had a chance to
join a tennis club and a golf club
things I find meaningless because she
really was old enough to remember when
whites only whites only Tennis Club
thought it meant Christians only it
actively excluded Jews she wanted that
equal opportunity and when she got it
well I got to see what she did with it I
suppose that was her generation struggle
veganism animal rights ecology ethics
these are all in a major way
my generation struggle our generation
struggle and yours too Maxie I would
urge you measure yourself and measure
all mankind
by one in the same standard don't treat
people in a dehumanizing way as not
having to live up to the same moral
standard as yourself do to so-called
socio-economic
and cultural oppressions especially not
when we're talking about something so
simple and so fundamental as recognizing
the difference between meat and tofu
asking the question where does my food
come from
and how can I take responsibility for
that
[Music]